buildwithai_redesign/README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/route.ts`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

## API Routes

This directory contains example API routes for the headless API app.

For more details, see [route.js file convention](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route).

Commit message:

feat: Add OpenProvider integration, expose API helpers and add tests + CI; update README

buildwithai_redesign/README.md, after:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/route.ts`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

## Environment & OpenProvider

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` locally and fill the OpenProvider credentials if you want the API routes to call the real vendor. For Vercel, add those variables in Project Settings > Environment Variables.

Required env vars (examples):

- `OPENPROVIDER_ENABLED=true` to enable real API calls
- `OPENPROVIDER_BASE_URL=https://api.openprovider.eu`
- `OPENPROVIDER_API_KEY=...`
- `OPENPROVIDER_API_SECRET=...`

The project includes a lightweight OpenProvider wrapper at `src/lib/openprovider.ts`. When disabled, API routes return mocked test responses.

## API Routes

This directory contains example API routes for the headless API app.

For more details, see [route.js file convention](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route).
